Blaine and his brother, the Rideout brothers.
One of them finally was a trainer at Bryan High School for 30 years, just called him Doc.
I think they were North Texas graduates and had been in the Olympics.
They were milers, distance runners.
But they were our trainers and on-the-job physicians and everything else.
And so when I got injured, I tried to come back later, but I couldn't keep a shoulder in place and had a tremendous amount of pain.
They just said, well, there's nothing we can do about it.
Back in those days, you didn't have surgery and you didn't have rotator cuff surgery and all those kind of things.
So they just said, looks like you can't play football anymore.
And it was a real, you know, just a matter of fact play.
There wasn't anything much done about it.
You just, that was it.
And that was in the spring of your freshman year?
Yeah.
So did you lose the scholarship support?
Yeah, well, I had to go into a regular outfit the next year.
And what outfit was that?
I was in F flight.
F Flight?
Flight, I was in the Air Force.
Air Force outfit.
Where was it located?
Darm 8.
In the new dorms?
Yeah, quite there, yeah.
I was in Darm 8 and F Flight.
How was life different over there compared to Hart Hall?
Well, it was strictly, I mean, it was tight military.
The class system was very fixed.
The drills and ceremony and intramural programs were
It was, you know, it was really, and you were confined to campus, you didn't ever get to go home maybe once a semester.
Of course, you got to go home for Christmas, but it was a tight schedule.
How were you treated as a person who transferred into that unit?
Well, they were anxious to get us that had been in Hart Hall because I ended up running their athletic intramural program for my outfit, and I always got along real well.
Was there a nickname for, you weren't a frog, was there a nickname for someone transferring in?
No, not when you originally came to A&M, no.
Just a sophomore peahead, just like anybody else.
I didn't care for transfers for several reasons.
Did Coach Steitler say goodbye to you, chat with you?
No, not really.
It was just...
It was just one of those, it was just almost like you went down to the training room one day and they said they'd done everything they could for you and that was just it.
That's the way they, the way everybody was.
It wasn't a big, athletics wasn't a big deal.
During that freshman year, what formation did you all run?
Oh, everybody ran T formation, just like high school.
And you were playing tackle?
Yeah, offense and defense.
And what was the record of the freshman team?
Oh, I think we went undefeated, best I remember.
As the year went on, next year, did you retain friendship with some of those athletes?
Oh, yeah.
Still do to this day.
I mean, we ended up, when we graduated, we didn't have about 6,000 students today.
I don't know what our graduating class was probably.
four or five hundred or something like that.
So we've known each other forever.
For those last three years, how did you earn the money to pay the bills here?
Well, I got a contract, of course, a military contract which paid
Well, we got our uniforms and our laundry, and I can't remember.
I know it cost me a dollar a day to eat.
I worked
all my summers full through to make money to pay what I had to pay.
But our meals were a dollar a day, all we could eat.
And we had our uniforms, and if we were on military contract, we got some spending money from that military contract.
Of course, we were obligated to go in the service, which we all were.
But it didn't take much money, so I think tuition was still $25.
During those years, particularly that first year, did you make any of the core trips?
I may not have made any core trips my first year, but I did every year thereafter.
Were there any that were special?
Oh.
Was there something that happened that was important to you?
No, I can remember a few of them.
I remember one to Rice, Houston, because we met, we formed a parade at Shamrock.
which was a brand new hotel and was quite a thing.
And of course, to eventually in my career to have been involved in buying the shamrock and tearing it down and building the Institute of Biological Sciences was kind of ironic.
I remember court trips in Dallas and Austin.
How did you travel on those court trips?
Oh, I never left this campus.
I didn't hitchhike.
Only one football player had a car.
That was Glenn Lippman.
He had a Plymouth.
We never went anywhere in automobiles.
We hitchhiked everywhere we went.
Did you ever have a negative experience as an Aggie hitchhiker?
I had some strange experiences.
Describe them.
Well, I remember being picked up by a carloader of nuns.
I can remember being picked up by a person intoxicated one time and had to bag my way out of that.
My roommate probably had one of the most interesting.
As I say, we hitchhiked, they had a line at every gate, and of course there was a, you had a class priority and then you had arrival time priority and different things, but there was never any problem getting a ride.
My roommate was hitchhiking to Port Arthur one time with somebody that eventually became our pastor at our church named Bob Davidson, and they got picked up.
Well, we couldn't get to Beaumont.
You had to go through Houston to get to Beaumont, and it cost a nickel to ride the bus.
You couldn't hitchhike across Houston.
You had to ride the bus across Houston and get out on the other side and hitchhike out of there.
There wasn't any roads.
You couldn't go to Beaumont like you can now.
Denny and Bob were hitchhiking to Port Arthur one weekend and got picked up by two ladies, two women.
And of course, I say one of these, my roommate was pretty wild.
Things that happened didn't bother him too much, but the one that came, our youth minister, these two women picked them up, and the first thing he wanted them to do was, you know, have a cigarette with them and so forth.
Well, Denny, it didn't bother him.
He smoked all the time, but Bob never had a cigarette in his mouth.
And he tried it, but these women got more aggressive as the trip went on.
So when they got to Liberty, Texas, men had to stop for a light.
Bob grabbed Denny and jerked him out of the car, and they got out of the car.
Bob wasn't going to go with these girls anymore.
They were getting too familiar with them.
And so, interestingly enough, the next week, Life Magazine had one of these girls on the cover, and she had done a striptease in the water fountain at LSU.
Her name was Stormy, so they had got picked up by a couple of prostitutes or strippers, I guess.
It made a lasting impression on Bob.
So I don't know.
They were a strange thing, but as a rule, I hitchhiked everywhere, never had any problems, never thought about having a problem, never was afraid to hitchhike.
Those first years, how often did you go home?
Well, we couldn't go.
Well, we didn't go home at all my freshman year.
Thanksgiving?
Well, no, we had football games.
I know we went home Christmas, and I don't remember.
In sophomore, we couldn't really go home at all.
because that wasn't our privilege.
Now, juniors and seniors, we were pretty well free to travel any weekend we wanted to, but freshman, sophomore years, we weren't allowed on the road much.
Do you remember going to your first midnight Yale practice?
Yeah, they used to have midnight yellow practice across from Hart Hall.
Over at the Grove?
Or was it at the Y?
See, we had, Hart was there close to the academic building, and so we may have had Yale practice sometime there.
Of course, we were right across from the drill field too.
That's where we built the bonfire was at the drill field.
Did you help with the bonfire?
Yes.
What'd you do that freshman year?
Well, first year I didn't have to do a lot because of football except I was one of the guards that made freshmen guard the bonfire.
And it was right across from Hart Hall.
And I was guarding, I think it was one morning, and that was the year that they tried to bomb a bonfire.
Please describe that.
Well, a UT student had
ran an airplane and got an incendiary bomb out of water surplus, I guess, or something.
And he flew over the drill field, dropped the bomb, missed the bomb farm, and he hit the property now where the MSC is.
MSC, that was vacant then.
MSC wasn't built until about 50 I don't think.
So in 48 that was a vacant field and he missed it.
Did you all know this plane was coming?
No.
Were you aware of what it was doing when it did get there?
Well, not really.
Just the bomb made a little explosion.
What kind of plane was it?
My plane?
A little old single-engine plane, best of my recognition.
And did you all see it?
Yeah.
Daylight or dark?
I was thinking it was in the morning.
Best I remember.
And what was the reaction?
Oh, back in those days, everything was good bull.
We didn't worry about it.
Nobody went to Austin to try to pay him back, did they?
Oh, that was such a thing all the time of Bevo getting branded and losing his horns and putting, sowing oats on the field to TU or A&M.
I was O.D., Officer of the Day, the night that some of my classmates stole the Baylor Bears.
I just happened to be on duty that night, and that was kind of exciting.
The car went to Baylor and got the Bear Cubs, and it was Lupo's car.
They made it back to College Station, but those bears had torn in the car with all the pieces.
They tore through from the trunk into the car.
What did they do with the bears when they got them to College Station?
I don't remember.
I tried to go on with them to Houston or something.
I don't know, it was a strange thing.
Anyhow, we had a boy killed back in those days.
The Baylor boys killed an Aggie.
Gosh, I can't remember.
It got pretty serious at one time.
I can't remember.
I just vaguely that at one time the Baylor students killed an A&M student during when trying to steal the Bears or something.
It was back in that period.
Baylor was always
I mean, we didn't have much love for TU, but Baylor was, we thought, the dirtiest of all groups we ever played, I guess.
In terms of traditional events, you remember going to your first Silver Taps?
Yes.
Taps was always a very moving thing.
We had Silver Taps right next to our dorm, of course.
It was a very moving affair.
Did everybody take it seriously?
Oh, yes, yes.
Back on Bonfire, that freshman year, were they already doing it out of logs entirely?
Oh, yeah.
When I came, they were already doing it.
Do you remember how far away the cutting area was?
No.
You know, those of us that were here then, even though we went cutting areas, we really didn't know where we were because we never left this campus.
We never went to Brine.
And if they loaded us up and took us somewhere out in the so-called country to cut logs, we wouldn't have known where we were because we had
We had no geographical orientation or any type of contact with the citizens of Bryan or College Station.
And the bonfire was what today is called teepee style?
Yeah, yeah.
And it was one stack?
Yeah.
The MSC was being built or?
No, MSC, the year that bomb was dropped would have been in 48.
So it wasn't yet even?
It wasn't even thought of at that time.
That was a big oasis.
See, there wasn't but
There wasn't but one place on campus to get a drink of water.
YMCA?
Cool water, and that was at the fountain at the YMCA.
The dorms didn't have any water coolers.
All the water came out of the tap, out of the sink.
So did you go to the Y often?
Occasionally at night in the late spring or when it just got so hot that you wanted a drink of water.
And nothing was air conditioned?
No.
Where did you and your buddies go during the day to kind of relax?
Well, he didn't have any periods of relaxation.
Did you go to them?
Or was there a place you could go and kind of hide out?
No.
We had one little old place across from the core area called George's, a little wooden building, where if you had the money, you could go and get, maybe you could get, junior, senior, you could get a Coke or something.
But you didn't have time to do anything.
You started at 6, bugle and wake up at 6.
went through chow.
You had to go to chow, march to chow for breakfast and supper and dinner.
And then you had your classes.
And then as soon as you could get out of class every day, you had to be in some intramural program.
Every day, I mean, you didn't have any.
And then you had
Oh, Saturday morning was, we went to class till noon on Saturday.
And then that's because we could have drill and ceremonies on all day, all afternoon on Thursday.
I can't remember.
We had one half day set aside for drill.
And then we had intermules
every day, and then we had classes till noon on Saturday, which made, again, that kind of made it difficult to leave campus to go anywhere on weekends if you had classes.
Did, as you look back on that first year, other than that injury, did you have any life-changing experiences?
Oh, yes.
That you look back on now and realize that was important, something happened that was important?
Yes.
Well, you know, it was pretty routine.
Everything was always routine.
But I had, in the fall, I had contracted the monk.
And I was practicing football every day with the mumps.
Wow.
And we had a kind of a hospital at that time of antiquated
hospital and I had a doctor here named Dr. Marsh for the campus.
And so I would go, I had a big nod on the side of my head.
So I'd go see Dr. Marsh every day and he'd put a heat lamp on my
where I had the mumps.
He didn't know it was mumps.
He thought I'd got hurt in football.
So I did that for a week or so.
And one day we were to go and play a game on Saturday morning.
I couldn't get out of bed.
And they had put the heat on me
practiced every day until the mumps had gone down on me.
And they took me into, I couldn't get up, so they took me to Bryan to Dr. Grant.
And he diagnosed my mumps across the room.
And Dawg Dawson took me to Bryan that day.
to a doctor and then they put me in a wheelchair and brought me back to campus, put me in the hospital and the quarantine area was on the second floor.
That's also where the nurses lived.
And so I was semi-conscious when I woke up.
I had two veterinary students shaving my groin and making a sling and packed my testicles in ice.
Mom Claghorn was the nurse or the head of the nurse, and she told me that I would probably need to transfer to Texas Women's University.
And there was a beautiful little blonde-headed nurse that lived on that floor.
And she'd come by to see me every night.
And one night she came by with mistletoe and put it over my head.
And there I am laying, I don't know,
almost unconscious with my testicles and eyes.
It was a strange phenomenon.
But that was a memorable part of my first year here, I guess.
Any character building sessions where somebody gave you advice or somebody turned you, changed your direction of where you were headed?
No, we didn't have really much counseling or anything, academic or personal counseling of any kind.
You just made your own way.
Did you do okay academically that first year?
Yeah, surprisingly enough.
I was better than a B student.
I don't know how.
And then you went home.
What did you do at home that summer after your freshman year?
Well, I started to work when I was six years old.
I got my Social Security card when I was six years old.
The first year that they ever had Social Security, I guess, in 1936, 1937.
And so I was used to working.
I sold Lays on Journal and Saturday and Post.
And won Salesman of the Year for that district as a six-year-old and got a desk.
That was my prize.
And my family and my children still have that desk.
But anyhow, I worked, always worked, and from the time I was six up, and I worked at, when I was 14, I went to work in a service station, and this leads to your question.
So I had to have a driver's license when I was 14 to work in a station.
And then I worked in service stations on up until I went to college primarily, but I'd also learned how to do mechanical things naturally.
And so I worked as a mechanic.
I believe that first summer, or the first summer before I went, I can't remember because eventually I ended up working for Pure Oil and for Exxon and the field, roused about it and things like that on up in college.
I can't remember the sequence or not.
So that those summer jobs were not related to your future profession.
Oh, no.
They were just income.
to make money.
You didn't try to match what you were going to do, just where you get the best job or get a job.
Depression.
Back here on campus, what extracurricular activities did you get involved in beginning with your sophomore year and then on?
Oh, I was...
I was, as I say, I was an athletic officer for my outfit, which meant every day being involved in an athletic program of some kind, an intramural program.
And I was, you didn't have a lot of organization.
I was in the Beaumont Hometown Program.
What did that Beaumont Hometown Club do?
Oh, it seemed like it met once, twice a semester or something like that.
It didn't do anything.
It just got, you know, didn't do anything.
You saw your buddies and talked about rides back and forth?
That's about it.
It was just how you're going to get back and forth and what you're going to do.
And I...
became active in the college, university, college, 4-H program.
Our future farmers, I can't remember which because
being in vocational training or ag ed, I thought I should get involved.
So, didn't have much.
There just weren't any organization activity.
We didn't have any fraternities or anything like that.
What did you and your buddies think about the singing cadet, groups like singing cadets and the band and things like that?
Well, the band was, singing cadets was not really
much thought of.
I don't even know where they existed at that time.
But the band was an integral part, and you just had, you were just essentially your outfit.
That was it.
I mean, that was your whole social structure and everything else was your outfit, which normally had about 45, 50 people in it of four different classes.
Were you all aware of any secret fraternities during that time?
I became aware of that my senior year.
One of my football cohorts had got arrested for being in the True Texans.
What was their purpose?
Do you have any idea?
Never knew.
They arrested several kids that year.
And it was a big stir because A&M didn't believe fraternities and didn't want that type of thing.
And you couldn't even wear your letter jackets or you couldn't wear anything distinguishing on campus.